
Update      Knuckle Under       Internalize
--------------------------------------------

0               0                    0      = STATIC

0               0                    1      = Face2face and online encounters are always unsuccesful. Only when an agent interacts
                                                face2face with another agent who has the same expressed opinions, the victim agent
                                                will always internalize their expressed opinion.
                                                    *  expressed opinions never leave 50/50. hidden opinions change but around 1000
                                                        iterations, remain at 50/50. 
                                              Note: if you meet someone you externally disagree with, nothing happens. As soon as you
                                                 meet someone you externally *agree* with, you *permanently* change hidden to match
                                                 your expressed.

0               1                    0      = Online process is always unsuccessful. Agents interact with graph neighbors sharing their
                                                expressed opinions (like the BVM). Red agents, who interact with blue agents, always 
                                                update their (expressed) opinion to imitate the other agent.
                                                    * expressed opinions reach uniformity
                                              Single BVM with "expressed" opinion on graph 

0               1                    1      = Online process is always ineffective. In face2face iteractions, red agents will always
                                                change their expressed opinions to blue. If the two agents agree externally, the
                                                victim agent will internalize that opinion.
                                                    * expressed opinions steadily reach uniformity of blue. hidden opinions soon
                                                       follow to uniformity blue. (Note: hidden can briefly make some towards-red
                                                       progress at the beginning, but pretty soon there are no external reds and 
                                                       all the external blue opinions eventually become internalized.)

1               0                    0      = Face2face process is unsuccessful. The online process acts like the binary voter model.
                                                Agents interact anonymously with any other agent. If their hidden opinions disagree,
                                                the victim agent always conforms to the other opinion.
                                                    * expressed opinions never change. hidden opinions behave like the BVM and always
                                                        reach uniformity of opinion (not influenced by the trump effect).
                                              Single BVM with "hidden" opinion on mean field 

1               0                    1      = In online interactions, when two agents' opinions disagree, the victim always conforms 
                                                their opinion to match the other's. In the face2face process, if two agents disagree,
                                                nothing happens. If they agree, the victim agent will always internalize their 
                                                expressed opinion.
                                                    * expressed opinions never change. hidden opinions never converge (at least by
                                                    50000 encounters).
                                              Prediction: as you lower down "internalize" from 1, the farther the hidden opinions
                                                can diverge from 50/50.

1               1                    0      = The two processes (face2face and online) function independently. The online process
                                                acts like the BVM where iteractions occur from MF and the victim agent always
                                                mimics the other agent's hidden opinion. The face2face process also acts like the
                                                BVM (with graph neighbors), and pressures red agents to change their expressed 
                                                opinion to blue. Agents never interalize their expressed opinion.
                                                    * expressed opinions quickly reach uniformity of blue. hidden opinions eventually
                                                        reach uniformity (after around 10000 encounters).
                                              Two independent BVMs: "hidden" opinion on mean field, and "expressed" on graph

1               1                    1      = Expressed red agents always change to blue when they interact with expressed blue agents.
                                                When two agents agree in a face2face encounter, the victim always internalizes his
                                                expressed opinion. Agents, when interacting online, always modify their opinion to 
                                                mimic the other agent if their internal opinions disagree.
                                                    * expressed opinions quickly reach uniformity of blue. once that occurs, victim
                                                        agents in face2face interactions always internalize their expressed opinion.
                                                        hidden opinions constantly change through online interactions (where red is
                                                        not negatively perceived) and the internalizing of blue expressed opinions.
                                                Expressed will go blue, followed by hidden, "guaranteed." (Guaranteed because once
                                                all expressed's are blue, there is an ongoing pressure to turn hidden's blue, even
                                                though there is simultaneously an unbiased BVM process going on with hidden's as 
                                                well.)
