What is opinion dynamics?
    - modeling user's latent opinion "to be modulated over time by opinions asynchronously
    expressed by her neighbors as sentiment messgaes" (De et al. 8)
    - "informational influence: users lacking necessary information seek the opinions of their 
    neighbors in order to update their beliefs" (Das, Gollapudi, Munagala 1)
        * Das, G, and M believe this is the dominant model of influence in short-term
        anonymous interactions, ex) chat rooms. 
    - Three types of opinion update processes: (Das, Gollapudi, Munagala 2)
        1) stubbornness- users do not change their opinion
        2) compromise- users update their opinion to be a convex combination of their initial
        opinion and their neighbor's opinion
        3) biased conformity- user takes on the opinions of her surrounding neighbors, 
        ignoring her own inital opinions

Biased Voter Model
    Made up of two basic parameters: 1) to capture stubbornness and 2) biased conformity  
SD Reproduce this:
    This model converges a consensus after an exponential amount of time, but the state,
    in which it spends the most time, was observed to be heavily polarized.
    To achieve polarization, existing models required users to ignore opinions that are
    less related to their own and to always be stubborn.
    Opinion Formation: Asch
        - "Asch, in his seminal conformity experiments, observed that a large fraction of 
        his subjects could be swayed to essentially say 'white is black' if everyone else 
        in the group said the same"
        - In his experiments, "the subject was placed in a room with several stooges 
        who unanimously gave the false (binary) response to a question where the 
        true answer was self-evident.
        - Observations: 1) "the extent of conformity (percent of subjects who conform) 
        depends on the size of the group and 2) even when one of the stooges gives 
        the true response, that is sufficient to reduce conformity significantly."
    This model is a combination of certain aspects from the flocking and DeGroot models.
    "We study the response of the subjects not only as a function of the size of the 
    neighborhood, but also as a function of the distribution of these opinions, and 
    the distance of these opinions from the subject’s own"
    
    (Das, Gollapudi, Munagala. "Modeling Opinion Dynamics in Social Networks".)


SLANT Model


The SLANT model is a modeling framework of opinion dynamics in socia media and social networking.
"The proposed framework is based on two intuitive ideas: 1) user's opinions are hidden until 
they decide to share it with their friends and 2) users may update their opinions about a particular 
topic by learning from the opinions shared by their friends." (De et al. 1) 
They modeled user's latent opinions as countinous-time stochastic processes driven by a set of marked
jump stochastic differential equations. Such construction allows each user’s latent opinion to be 
modulated over time by the opinions asynchronously expressed by her neighbors as sentiment message
The Markov property is essential to the main components of the model:
I. "An efficient estimation procedure to find the parameters that maximize the likelihood of a set 
of (millions of) sentiment messages via convex programming.
II. A scalable simulation procedure to sample millions of sentiment messages from the proposed 
model in a matter of minutes.
III. A set of novel predictive formulas for efficient and accurate opinion forecasting, which 
can also be used to identify conditions under which opinions converge to a steady state of 
consensus or polarization." (De et al.)
The model provided a good fit to both the synthetic and real data gathered from Twitter.

    De, Valera, Ganguly, Bhattacharya, Gomez-Rodriguez. 2016. "Learning and Forecasting
        Opinion Dynamics in Social Networks."



"Stubborn" Voters

- binary attribute: stubborn or not stubborn
- non-stubborn nodes can have random encounters with neighbors where they may adopt
the opinion of the stubborn node
- Extension of classic voter model: "coalescing random walks with absorbing states given 
by the stubborn agents"
- "the expected value of the asymptotic opinion of agent i is given by the probability 
that the dual random walk on G initiated at node i is absorbed by the stubborn set of type one."
- dual approach: agent state evolution is related to a dual process defined through 
coalescing random walks on the graph G
- Stubborn agents of opposite ideologies prevent consensus in the society
- Researchers use this framework to study the problem of optimal stubborn agent placement.
  

  Yildiz, Acemoglu, et al. "Discrete Opinion Dynamics with Stubborn Agents".


Deffuant-Weisbucc Model
Hegselmann-Krause Model


There are two extensively studied models that explore continuous opinion
dynamics under bounded confidence, the Deffuant-Weisbuch (DW) model (Deffuant
et al. 2000) and the Hegselmann-Krause (HK) model (Hegselmann and Krause
2002). 

The DW and HK models are very similar in their use of bounded confidence on a
continuous opinion scale. Differences arise in how an agent aggregates the
opinions around them for consideration in their own opinion shift. With the DW
model, agents aggregate opinions through pairwise evaluations, slightly
shifting an agent’s opinion after looping through all possible pairings within
the population. In the HK model, an agent aggregates all other agent opinions
within their confidence bound and considers the group average for shifting
their opinion (Lorenz 2007)

The HK model is described in Fu, Zhang, and Li (2015).

One of the research conclusions by Fu, Zhang, and Li (2015) through the use of
their MHK model was that closed-minded agents dominated the formation of
opinion consensus. This was supported by simulation results that indicated as
the proportion of closed-minded agents in the population increased (with the
difference being open-minded), so did the number of final opinion clusters
after reaching a period of steady state.


    Deffuant, G., D. Neau, F. Amblard, and G. Weisbuch. 2000. "Mixing Beliefs
        among Interacting Agents." _Advances in Complex Systems_ 3:87-98. doi: 10.1142/S0219525900000078

    Fu, G., W. Zhang, and Z. Li. 2015. "Opinion Dynamics of Modified Hegselmann -
        Krause Model in a Group-Based Population with Heterogeneous Bounded
        Confidence." Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and Its Applications
        419:558-565. doi:10.1016/j.physa.2014.10.045

    Hegselmann, R., and U. Krause.  2002. "Opinion Dynamics and Bounded
        Confidence Models, Analysis, and Simulation." _Journal of Artificial Societies
        and Social Simulation_ 5. http://jasss.soc.surrey.ac.uk/5/3/2/2.pdf

    Lorenz, J. 2007. "Continuous Opinion Dynamics under Bounded Confidence: A
        Survey." International Journal of Modern Physics C 18:1819-1838.
        doi:10.1142/S0129183107011789 .




Deffuant et al. 2000. "Mixing beliefs among interacting agents".

- Agents only interact if they are directly connected through a social pre-existing relation. 
Facing the difficulty of inventing a credible instance of a social network as in the literature on 
social binary choice [WEI 99], we adopted the standard simplification and we carried out our simulations 
on square lattices: square lattices are simple, allow easy visualisation of opinion configurations and contain 
many short loops, a property that they share with real social networks. (6)

- inital random sampling of opinions from 0 to 1
- a pair is randomly selected among connected agents anf opinons are updated if their distance is less than d
- vector of opinions: binary
    * Hamming distance: number of different bits among the two vectors
    * Agents may interact and adjust opinions according to how many opinions they share.
    * Adjustments occur when agents agree on d-1 subjects or less. All equal opinions are conserved. When
    opinions on a subject differ, one agent (random) is convinced by the other. (8)
    * polarization was not observed (9)
- We thus observe than when opinion exchange is limited by similarity of opinions among agents, the 
dynamics yield isolated clusters among initially randomly distributed opinions. Exchange finally 
only occurs inside clusters as a the result of the exchange dynamics; initially all agents were communicating 
either directly or indirectly through several directly connected agents (11)


Weisbuch et al. 2001. "Interacting agents and Continuous opinion dynamics"

- continuous, random pairwise interactions when difference of opinion is below a threshold
- High thresholds yield convergence of opinions towards an average opinion, whereas low 
thresholds result in several opinion clusters.
- The purpose of this paper is to present results concerning continuous opinion dynamics subject 
to the constraint that convergent opinion adjustment only proceeds when opinion difference is 
below a given threshold
- Components of this paper: 
    1) Researchers expose a simple case of complete mixing among agents under a unique and constant 
        threshold condition.
        - For large thresholds (d > 0.3), they observed only one cluster at the average initial opinion.
        - For lower thresholds, several clusters were observed. Consensus was not achieved.
    2) Then they checked the genericity of the results obtained for the simplest model to other cases 
        such as localised interactions, distribution of thresholds, varying thresholds and binary strings 
        of opinions.
- A previous paper (Deffuant et al. 2000) reported more complete results on mixing across a social network and on 
binary strings of opinions.


Sirbu et al. 2013. "Opinion Dynamics with Disagreement and Modulated Information." 
    Journal of Statistical Physics.

- Vector of continuous opinions (fixed number for all nodes)
- "fully connected social network graph"
- Each agent chooses between K possible opinions on a given subject. Each individual maintains a set of 
probabilities for the K possibilities
- Probability: the internal probability of individuals to choose between several discrete options
- Interaction = 1) observing the actions of others, and 2) discussing with other agents where opinions 
on the different choices are exchanged
- NO bounded confidence implementation
- Encounters: pairwise interaction between A and B where they will either agree or disagree on one issue
    * Agreement: A changes his/her status as the result of an agreement with B. An interaction occurs when A
    and B discuss an opinion. Its probability is decreased by the value α = 0.1 in A to become more similar
    to B. The probabilities of the rest of the opinions are increased by equal amounts to conserve the unity sum. 
    * Disagreement: An interaction occurs between A and B, where A and B have a disagreement. A's probability 
    increases by the amount α = 0.1, decreasing its overlap with the B. Equivalently, the probabilities of 
    the rest of the opinions are decreased by equal amounts to conserve the unity sum
- α determines the flexibility of agents since it fixes the time scale for local agreement or disagreement. 
The larger α is, the faster the two individuals will agree or get separated. This method allows for the 
absolute value of the change on position l to be the same for agreement and disagreement.
- Their model focuses on the interplay between the possibility of explicit disagreement, modulated in a 
self-consistent way by the existing opinions’ overlaps between the interacting individuals, and the 
effect of external information on the system
- political opinions are determined by how a person synthesises the different sources of information and 
biases, and comes up with a specific position to be eventually expressed as a vote whenever required
- Although discrete variables are very suitable for modelling choices, the internal state of individuals, based on which discrete decisions are taken, may be continuous
- Most of the original models deal with attractive dynamics, where individuals follow their neighbours. 
However, in reality, both attractive and repulsive interactions can be observed, and it has been argued 
that disagreement is a very important feature of a democratic society
 

