I. Introduction
	a. "social bubble"
    b. Definition of polarization. Are there competing definitions?
	c. Why should we care if the American public is becoming polarized?
II. Lit search
	a. The Great Debate: Polarization
		i. Converse's "The Nature of Belief Systems in Mass Publics" 1964
			1) Based on his analysis of the 1956 and 1960 American Elections
			2) The vast majority of ordinary voters show little evidence of using an ideological 
			framework to evaluate political parties and their candidates.
			3) The majority have a limited understanding of the basic concepts of liberalism and conservatism.
			4) Only a small minority of elites have the ability or education to deeply understand.
			5) Political and cultural divisions within the American public have deepened considerably since the 1970s.
		ii. Saunders and Abramowitz: Polarization is real!
SD: Find a definition of "elite."
SD: Big picture -- what kinds of techniques are they using to determine "how polarized a group is"; does this have anything to do with social networks
			1) Wrote "Is Polarization a Myth?" (2008), ""Ideological realignment in the U.S. Electorate" (1998) and more
			2) Growing elite polarization has led to an increase in ideological awareness and polarization among the public
SD: Any impact of WWW and social networks here?
				a) Cited in their 1998 article
				b) Findings backed by Hetherington 2001, Layman and Carsey 2002
			3) Such political divisions reflect differences in religious beliefs and practices as well as deep-seated psychological orientations
				a) Layman 1997, 2001; Layman and Carmines 1997;  Jost 2006
			4) Can be explained by ideological polarization among party supporters in the electorate.
				a) Jacobson 2000
		iii. Fiorina: Polarization is not real!
			1) Wrote "Polarization in the American Public" (2008), "Why Can't We All Get Along?" (2005), "Disconnected: The Political Class vs the 
			People" (2006), "Culture War? The Myth of Polarized America", and more
			2) Cites that Converse's portrait of the American electorate is pretty accurate
			3) The ideological disputes that engage political elites and activists have little resonance among the masses. Americans are "not very 
			well-informed about politics, don't hold views of their own very strongly,  and are not ideological' ("Culture War?")
			4) The American public is moderate: closely divided but not deeply divided
			5) Differences between Liberal and Conservative identifiers on issues has increase slightly. Partisan polarization is an elite phenomenon. 
			Only the elites are truly polarized in their views.
			6) Divisions in the public based on religious beliefs and practices have increased, while divisions based on social characteristics 
			(age, race, gender) have decreased.
		iv. Saunders and Abramowitz vs. Fiorina
			1) Other opinions?
    b. Opinion Dynamics
        i. Defintion:
            - Opinion Dynamics models have a "set of agents where each holds an opinion 
            from a certain opinion space. She may change her opinion when she becomes aware of the 
            opinions of others." (Lorenz 2)
            - "Each agent is willing to change her opinion if she hears the opinions of others by
            adjusting towards those opinions" (Lorenz 2)
        ii. Discrete: 
            - In physics literature, discrete opinon dynamics have dominated research due to their "striking analogy with
            spin systems" (Lorenz 2)
                Serge Galam. Minority Opinion Spreading in Random Geometry. The European Physical Journal B, 25:403–406, 2002.
                Frank Schweitzer and Janusz Ho lyst. Modelling Collective Opinion Formation by Means of Active Brownian 
                    Particles. European Physical Journal B, 15(4):723–732, 2000.
                Katarzyna Sznajd-Weron and J ́ozef Sznajd. Opinion Evolution in a Closed Community. International Journal 
                    of Modern Physics C, 11(6):1157–1165, 2000.
        iii. Continuous:
            - "Continuous opinions are more related to negotiation problems of fuzzy attitudes which do not really match
            with a yes or no decision" (Lorenz 18)
            - Bounded Confidence: "An agent is only willing to take those opinions into account which differ less than a
            certain bound of confidence E from her own opinion" (Lorenz 2)
            - Repeated averaging under bounded confidence
                a. Agents meet in random pairwise encounters after which they compromise or not.
                    Deffuant, Weisbuch and others (DW) model
                b. Each agent moves to the average opinion of all agents which lie in her area of confidence (including herself).
                    Hegselman and Krause (HK) model 
            

	c. Political Polarization on Twitter
		i. Methods for Collecting Data
			1) "Classifying Political Orientation on Twitter"
				a) Political Figures Dataset: baseline dataset for the study.
					- Researchers surveyed lists of self-declared Liberals and Democrats. They observed that a majority of the Twitter users 
					were, in fact, politicians. To mimic this design, they populated their dataset entirely with state governors, 
					federal-level senators, and federal-level representatives. 
 				b) Politically Active Dataset:
					- "A user may indicate a political orientation in her Twitter profile (e.g., “Republican and loving it!” or 
					“Born a Democrat, will die a Democrat.”) or be flagged as belonging to one party or the other in a Twitter listing 
					such as the WeFollow service."
 		ii.  Predicting polarization
			1) Inferring ideology based on connectedness on the graph
				a) What are the main techniques used to infer this? 
					- Pennebaker, Chung, and Ireland 2007
						1) They collected all tweets that contained the names of either the 6 parties (German study) or selected 
						prominent politicians of these parties.
						2) LIWC2007 (Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count): a text analysis software developed to assess emotional, cognitive, 
						and structural components of text samples using a psychometrically validated internal dictionary. 
					-"Classifying Political Orientation on Twitter"
						1) SVM Classifier: based on (Zamal, Liu, and Ruths 2012) which primarily focuses on gender
							- SVM is better than BT bec SVM is 95% accurate
							- Superset of users features: 2 for each (1 for Conservative and 1 for Liberal) 
								k-top words, k-top stems, k-top co-stems, k-top digrams and trigrams, k-top hashtags, 
								k-top mentions, tweet/retweet/hashtag/link/mention frequencies, and out/in-neighborhood size 
							- It was "considered to be more fair representation of all existing systems proposed to date. 
							Following prior work, a radial basis function was used as the SVM kernel. The cost and γ parameters were 
							chosen using a grid search technique. The SVM itself was implemented using the library libSV"
						2) LLDA Classifier: "employs all words present in the corpus"
							- Despite their strong performance in other areas, they have been little-used in the domain of latent 
							attribute inference. In the political orientation inference literature, there is one study which used 
							the output of the LDAs as one of many features that were fed into a larger SVM classifier.
								(Conover et al. 2011b)
							- In "Classifying Political Orientation on Twitter", researchers employed a Labeled LDA as a stand-alone 
							classifier, which reported accuracy rates as high as the SVM.					
				b) What are the main conclusions that have been drawn?
					- Many classifiers report accuracy rates 30% higher than can be expected in populations of general Twitter users.	
						("Classifying Political Orientation on Twitter")


			2) Determining ideology based on Sentiment Analysis of the words in a user's tweets
				a) What are the main techniques used to infer this? 
				
				b) What are the main conclusions that have been drawn?

		iii. Measuring polarization through dynamic social network graphs
				a) What are the main techniques used to infer this? 

				b) What are the main conclusions that have been drawn?

III. Synthetic Data
	a. What does it represent?
	b. Adding edges/nodes
IV. Our data
	a. What is it?
	b. How we collected it?
	c. How it is represented with an evolving social network graph
		i. Attributes
V. Results

