Title: ?????

Abstract

    Political polarization represents the increasing divergence of opinions between Liberals and Conservatives
on the political spectrum. As social media fosters an echo-chamber, people tend to form relationships with the 
like-minded, and break ones with the opposite. Over time, tight network clusters separated by ideology begin to 
prevent communication between the political parties. A happy medium between no conversation and total uniformity 
of opinion is key in cultivating a healthy society. Our task was to simulate a network of Twitter users and model 
their changing political opinions on a graph. We coded a function to take several parameters, including the initial
graph, and produce an animation file of the changing plot over some amount of time. Some methods other researchers 
choose to implement did not accurately represent the framework of Twitter. We found a significant difference in the 
length of time before complete consensus of opinion, when the order of interactions between neighbors varies as well 
as the number of users present in the interaction. Opinion dynamics literature cites one micro-behavior, a few 
stubborn users who never change their opinion, as a cause of a macro-behavior, polarization of political ideology. 
Another macro-behavior, uniformity of opinion, is cited to always occur for users with binary opinions where each 
user adopts another’s opinion. This fall, we plan to study real Twitter users who follow politicians and are 
politically active. Once we have constructed an accurate political text classifier, we can label users according 
to their tweets. Recording the dynamic relationships of these users through the upcoming election will allow us 
to study the effect of observed micro-behaviors on the dataset.

Political Polarization

    Political Polarization is an observed phenomenon which occurs when public opinion diverges on the political 
spectrum, leaving only two parties with extreme, stubborn values. With the creation of social networking, people 
now have the ability to build a personal profile, choose who they wish to follow, and decide how frequently they 
wish to visit the site. Each person can choose how much or how little he/she wishes to share about his/her own 
personal beliefs online. Homophily is a tendency humans have to associate themselves with others who have similar 
opinions and beliefs. If two friends agree on one issue and follow each other, it is highly probable one may directly
or indirectly influence the other into adopting his/her opinion on another issue. Over time, politically active users 
have been observed to aggregate into communities of interest, which allows confirmation bias to be reinforced and 
selective news to go undisputed. When public opinion is polarized, it becomes increasingly difficult for the parties 
to compromise on solutions for pressing national issues.

Opinion Dynamics

    The study of how people formulate and change their own opinion based on the opinions of others is essential to the 
field of Opinion Dynamics. In order to model a population of users as a graph, each Twitter user must be represented as 
a vertex, also known as a node, on the graph. The relationship between two users on Twitter can be unidirectional (one 
follows the other) or bidirectional (they both follow each other), and thus must be depicted as either an arrow or a 
line respectively. The arrow is always directed from followee to the follower in order to portray the direction of 
information flow. 
    There are many different ways to simulate how users change their opinion. The political ideology for each user 
can be modeled as either univariate or multivariate, where the opinion value is either discrete or continuous. 
The Binary Voter Model, produced independently by Holley 1975 and Clifford 1973, is a simple simulation where 
each agent has one binary opinion value and always adopts another's opinion. Weisbuch 2001 created a model where
agents held a continuous opinion value and would only interact when the difference was below a specfied threshold 
value. The two ways to design how a user is influenced is either through pairwise interactions or group influence. 
Pairwise interactions always occur between two users, whether the users are neighbors on the graph or not. Group 
influence is a different type of interaction, where a user considers the group average of its neighbors in order
to potentially shift his/her opinion.
    Many researchers in the field of Opinion Dynamics chose to simplify their model so that they could analytically
work out the solution without having to simulate it. There are two reasons to simulate a model: 1) to determine whether 
certain micro-behaviors are sufficient to produce known macro-observations and 2) to determine the macro-consequences 
of certain micro-behaviors. In our case, we are interested in the modeling assumptions that will produce macro-behaviors, 
such as entrenched polarization, alignment on seemingly diverse issues, and uniformity of opinion. The Binary Voter Model
is cited to always lead to uniformity of opinion after some length of time. Yildiz reinvented this model by adding a 
binary stubbornness attribute to each node. He found that typically the insertion of a few static users led to a graph 
polarized by opinion.

Results

    While reproducing other models from the Opinion Dynamics literature, we noticed opportunities to make slight variations. 
The Binary Voter Model cycles through iterations, where each iteration users are randomly chosen to interact with other 
randomly chosen users. What seemed more realistic to us was having every single user have a turn each iteration. In the real 
world, people are influencing others and formulating their own opinions in tandem with the population. So we set up a parameter
sweep over 50 simulations comparing the consensus time between the two. We found significant results when our model converged 
on average faster than the Binary Voter Model.
    Many literature models 



        * Ex: Binary Voter Model, DW, HK, BVM with stubborn agents, etc.
    - Our findings
        - sensitive to how encounters are set up
        - Dave model


Future Work
    
    This fall, we plan to study what micro-behaviors may be effective in mitigating the polarization of a politically polarized society.

    - Emperical Dataset
    - Give graph metrics
