Notes on May 19
Dave was here!

- We need a  way to get a data set from Twitter
	○ Some number of twitter users that is cross-pollinated with both parties
- We need a way to talk about how the graph has evolved over time
	○ Graph has become more or less polarized
	○ Ways to characterize an evolving graph
	○ But the connections between people can change
- Can you find out someone's followers at a previous point in time
	○ Who were the followers of a person a year ago?
	○ Bail out: mentions graph?
		§ Do mentions denote friendship?
		§ Dynamic network visualization
- Gathering a Twitter data set:
	○ What we want
		§ A data set of appropriate size (hundred of nodes)
		§ Not too sparse
		§ Can get attributes
			§ How do we label vertices with political views?
				® Well-known vertices (Limbaugh) hand label
				® Hand tag based on human-reading tweets
				® Infer through tweets (classifier)
				® Infer through graph (assortativity)
				® Need a political detector!!!
	○ Start with House of representatives or presidential candidates
		§ How easy is it to get all the twitter handles for members of Congress?
		§ All their followers
		§ Look only at non-isolates
	○ Or people present at an event (like a debate?)
	○ A bipartisan political organization?
	○ Attendees at an academic political conference?
	○ By geographic region
		§ Start with a month's worth of geo-located tweets
		§ Cut it down to just a bidirectional mentions graph
		§ Get rid of all isolates (lone wolves)
		§ Filter it through to remove all the people who don’t tweet about politics
		§ Then send it through a classifier to see red vs blue 
	○ Winnow out anybody who doesn’t pass the political detector 
	○ Through political hashtags
- What is the graph?
		§ Open questions:
			□ Are they dense enough?
			□ Can we get them over time?
			□ Are people always mentioning celebrities?
			□ Having potentially past twitter names and trying to get the twitter ID
	○ Mentions graph 
		§ Unidirectional or bidirectional
		§ Who are you dialoging with?
	○ Followers
		§ Unidirectional or bidirectional
		§ Can we get past data?
		§ Who are you listening to?
	○ Bipartite projection with common hashtags
- A polarized country is bad. People should talk and collaborate. If a graph is reflective of a high polarization, can we inject crusader nodes to reverse the polarization effect. Point of no return.
- The graph model assumes that you are more likely to form new connections with people who are close to you on the political spectrum.
	○ The probability of forming an edge depends on how close you are
	○ Crusader nodes: 0.5 on the political spectrum
		§ Introduced to a graph to gravitate people towards the middle
		§ How many are necessary to restore equilibrium
			□ Where is the point of no return
		§ Instead of adding mediators, add edges instead??
			□ Not equivalent!
		§ Fixed vs. variable mediators?
		§ How to introduce connections?
			□ Uniformly random? Choose more extreme? Choose less extreme?
		§ Does repeated exposure to opposite views help to chip away at the more extreme views on the political spectrum?
		§ Do edges get "re-rolled" periodically?
			□ Dynamic (morphing graph) vs time-series (almost different graphs each week/month)
				® How do you know when to remove an edge? [follow/unfollow]
				® How important is the initial condition?
		§ What to type into lit review: *****
			□ Random dynamic graph models, set of parameters and attributes, diffusion!, epidemiology related: either you diffuse through one graph OR have a dynamic graph that is not controlled by the disease (the disease is external), opinion dynamics
				® "Mixing beliefs among interacting systems": Introduction. Problem is that the graph is most likely fixed
					◊ Look through its Works Cited!
				® Randomly meeting is an edge?? When two people meet they either are or are not going to influence
	○ Abortion vs Minimum Wage: not related, but big correlation
		§ The people who are pro choice only talk to another pro choice people and begin to share opinions in other not related issues
		§ "Mixing Beliefs among interactive systems"
		§ When two people meet, if their difference of opinion is smaller in magnitude that a threshold, delta, their opinions may adjust.
			
